# Kickstarter-Analysis

In this case study, we took a look at all Kickstarter projects up until 2018 and each of their metrics including, project name length, main category, project duration, goal in USD, project country, and whether the project was successful to identify, which of these factors play a major role and how much in predicting the outcome of the project.

The data can be found on kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/kemical/kickstarter-projects) and I applied many data transformations before analysis could begin. Besides removing duplicate, empty, erroneous data and correcting data types, I created new columns such as, project name length, project duration days, and bivariate column for project success programmatically that would aid in my analysis goal. For ease of understanding and analysis, I used goal amounts in USD for all projects and used currency data to extract country information for rows with missing countries.

We first started at a general overview of the dataset starting with project duration (aka how long the project was live on kickstarter for - from hereon out we will refer to this as "live days"). Overall, the mean duration of live days was 33.65 days, roughly 1 month. In fact 59.8% of all projects fell between 25 and 35 days. 25th percentile was 29.10 days, 50th percentile was 29.69 days and 75% percentile was 36.74 days. Looking at live days of successful projects was not too surprising given that the majority of the projects were grouped around 30 days: 25th percentile was 29.00 days, 50th percentile at 29.47 days, and 75th percentile at 33.69 days with a mean of 31.60 days. Slightly less, but the same idea here; Successful projects are too grouped around 30 days of project live time. Through logistic regression it was found that impact of difference in live days was statistically significant, albeit small. Project success was 1.02 times less likely for every additional day the project was live for. This aligns with kickstarter's own guidelines regarding project duration: "We've done some research, and found that projects lasting any longer are rarely successful. We recommend setting your campaign at 30 days or less. Campaigns with shorter durations have higher success rates, and create a helpful sense of urgency around your project." (https://help.kickstarter.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005128434-What-is-the-maximum-project-duration-)

Next we took a look at the distribution of project main categories. Flim & Video and Music were by far the most created projects on Kickstarter where Film & Video had 26.2% more projects than Music. Out of 15 main categories, these 2 categories make up 30% of all projects. When taking a look at the top main categories of successful projects, we find that the number of successful projects between Music and Film & Video are much closer (24,134 and 23,639 respectively) with Games coming in as Top 3 with a huge difference (12,583). My personal assumption regarding huge number of success and its sheer count for these main categories that help explain this trend is that these projects are easily accessisble to the consumers through the internet, which happens to be how they also came to stumble upon the project itself. When taking a look at project success rates alone of the main categories, Dance came in at the #1 spot with 62.1% and Theater at #2 with 59.9%. Music came in 4th and Film & Video in 6th in overall success rate. All 4 of the above mentioned categories were higher than 35.8%, the overall success rate of any project. When taking a look at the impact of main category on project success with logistic regression where we used the main category of Games as baseline (closest to the success rate of any project), we find that Dance and Theater project successes are both more than 2 times more likely holding all else constant. On the other end of the spectrum, both Journalism and Crafts project's success are more than 2 times less likely holding all else constant. It is generally a good idea to pursue projects with main categories with adverse negative impact on project success with caution.

When looking at project country, the effect of all countries outside of US were either statistically insignificant or negative towards project success. Great Britain as a project country was found to have the least negative impact towards project success rate at 1.08 times less likely holding all else constant. It is generally a good idea to include as many customers as possible by supporting multiple languages and shipping to multiple countries as necessary.

Both project name length and project goal amount (in USD) were statistically significant with small impact. Having an extra character in the project name contributed towards 1.01 times more likeliness to achieve project success holding all else constant. This could mean that projects with titles that describe the project well have a better chance and achieving success. Project goal amount had even less of an impact at 1.00002 times more likely to achieve project success for every dollar increase in project goals holding all else constant.

This case study can be improved via inclusion of additional Kickstarter project metrics such as, inclusion of video, number of video/pictures, and number of funding tiers. I would personally love to come back and really narrow down on a single category and its sub categories when and if more metrics become publicly available.
